---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 Performing WODs Technical Essay
date: 2022-01-26
labels:
  - WODs
  - BrowserHistory1
  - BrowserHistory2
  - BrowserHistory3
  - BrowserHistory6
  - SmartPhoneProducts1_variables
---

My first WOD was hard to get used to, I tried it on my own first and only got as far as making the headings and paragraphs correctly. I did not know how to create hyperlinks so I watched the screencast to get familiar with what was expected. I then went back to my VS code and deleted the old version and got as far as creating the hyperlinks for each paragrpah. After getting this far I got stuck again creating the table of contents. The list and anchor was difficult at first but after doing it a few more times I got it down. I then deleted my code, restarted my screencast and got as far as creating the table of contents, adding anchors, and linking them to each paragraph. The logo images were simple to include into the code and after a few times redoing the sizes I got used to adding images. The most difficult parts for me was understanding how to link the table of contents to each paragrah, but after using the anchor and id keys a few more times I felt better and understand how the code communicates. This WOD took me about 5 tries, the act of writing code helps me understand how it is supposed to feel and I can start to see how to get creative with it.

My second WOD took fewer tries after I learned how to use the link tag to integrate the index file and the style file. After getting an understanding how the two files interact with eachother I continued to establish the fonts. This was my first major roadblock and it took me a while to understand the integration of fonts. I had to revert back to the screencast and deleted my code. Once I got better at coding in style.css I felt more comfortable changing fonts, colors, margins, and background color. I then got to the image display and changed the orientation to be on the left side of the text, this was new to me so I was glad to get that figured out with another tip from the screencast so they weren't too close together, I used margin-right to add some spacing. Overall, this WOD taught me a lot about CSS and I feel much better about styling my documents. This WOD took me a few less tries than the first, after getting some practice I was able to do it in 3 tries. The hardest part for me was including the fonts.

My third WOD took me a while to understand, I first started with separating the paragraphs into three sections by using the div class tags, this is about how far I could go in the beginning. I then went into the screencast to figure out how to link the style.css file to the paragraphs, I learned that you need to do .right, .left, .center, this was tough for me to get down but after practicing a few more times I got it down. After getting this far I learned how to use padding to get some spacing between the paragraphs and practiced doing that by deleting my code, restarting the recording and getting back to this step. Then I deleted the Table of Contents to create a better dislay for it, I had to watch the screencast to get the navbar linked and how to create the inline table of contents. Once I got everything done a few times I then deleted it and started my screencast. It took me about 4 tries to get the entire code done correctly but now I feel that I have a better understanding how to move the paragraphs and lists around.

BrowserHistory6 felt a bit easier than the last few WODs, once I started the WOD I found it easy to create the buttons, and creating new html files for the separate pages was not a challenge. It was important to include the same stylesheet to the header for all of the newly created html files to ensure there was no difference in formatting. Then we began to copy and paste the information for each page into the html of the pages to separate the information and leave the introduction for the index/home page. I find it satisfying to change the stylesheet font and background color, it is fun to customize the page and experiment with different styles. After changing the background and font color, I added an image box so the logo should show as we mouse over the buttons. Assigning the buttons to a window.location is a useful tool to know for connecting and creating an website to multiple pages. Then I assigned the button with a mouseover command to the image location for previewing of the logo for the page using the imgbox.innerHTML. It's very important to be aware of using double or single quotes when copying and pasting image locations so there is no confusion with the code. Some advice for future WODs would be to be aware of how good coding is practiced and to note what incorrect coding looks like so we can avoid mistakes, another thing to utilize is to constantly save the code and run it to see if it works as intended.

SmartPhoneProducts1_variables started off easy, there were a few tips to code smoother and ensure there wasn't any repitition or typos. The tips I used was Ctrl + F to find within the page, then I'm able to search words, numbers, or symbols. I used the search tip to find h2 tags to change them to a line of code for the WOD, I used a .* within the quotations to 'include anything within h2 tags. We did the same with paragraph tags and replaced them with code provided in the WOD. The image sources then needed to be changed so each of the images corresponded with the correct image with the title and price. Then I created a new file for data called products_data.js and copied the original defined varaibles that were in the header section and pasted it into this new file. Then I linked the pages by using a script source tag in the header to ensure the data for the webpage was correct. Finally, in the products_data.js file I used a console.log function that displays that the product data is loaded. A few pieces of advice from this WOD is to ensure the pages are linked together correctly, to make sure the data is stored in the correct file.