Living the healthy lifestyle sounds to me like having the appropriate mindset to reach my goals with ease. I know this definition of healthy living is not healthy eating based, but does it necessarily have to be? Do not get me wrong, I love to eat healthy, I just do not believe that is the only factor required in living a healthy lifestyle. By living a healthy lifestyle I can prepare and create a better life for me and those who surround me. I can do this by actively and consistently motivating my thoughts and actions toward something that I believe will solve problems and form a successful flowing community around me, that is healthy living to me. This may be difficult sometimes, I understand that. Although it may be difficult, I know that striving for something greater in life has never done me wrong in the past and actions like these form a well-structured future of happiness. My motivation comes from myself and the people who support me, such as family and close friends. Every day I wake and strive for greatness, I am not doing it to please people or trying to win others over, I have simply chosen this way of life, I want to be successful. Success is healthy, being able to face your problems with excitement as well as helping others through times of need, elevating and motivating people around me make me happy. Happiness is healthy, I believe you should not settle for anything less than that, it is hard for some and comes easier to others. Happiness is natural and can be hard to find in such an unnatural world we live in today, but all can be done if one is willing to do good. Appreciation and the state of being grateful are great ways to cultivate and manifest happiness, which I am continually working towards daily. Happiness comes within us and cannot be created unnaturally, therefore, when you realize that you hold the power to spread happiness, that is the greatest feeling a man or women can possess.
	My number one health goal is maintaining my mental state, being certain that I am okay, clear minded, and mindful of my emotions and the emotions of others around me. Before I can address any problems, I need to assess my emotions. If I am feeling a sort of way, it can make things more difficult to get things done with mental traffic. This is a process of balancing my lifestyle; being sleep deprived or feeling unhealthy mentally and physically are factors that can be negatively affecting your mental state. All things that can be adjusted in your day-to-day lifestyle to better improve your mental state. I balance my lifestyle by being active, by this I do not mean only physical exercise, I use my time efficiently and effectively to solve my problems and accomplish my goals. I spend a certain amount of time to myself daily to read, usually in the morning with a cup of coffee to get the day started and ideas flowing. The books I spend my time reading can be classified as business oriented, self-help, psychological, and philosophical readings. I enjoy reading these types of books because in a sense they show me the tools that are necessary to be successful in life, business, and self-fulfillment. Since I started reading, about a year ago, I have seen tremendous changes in my life. I have gone through many ups and downs through my journey for a successful and healthy life, and along the way, these books have helped more than I could have known. I have learned skills and lessons from these books which motivates me to live a healthy life as I continue my journey into the field of business. Aside from my mental being first priority, there are underlying factors which elevate my mental state such as eating healthy and exercising. I tend to eat healthy and exercise by working out at the gym, going on a run, surfing, or swimming. By doing a combination of those activities as well as eating a healthy and nutritious meal I feel stimulated and wholesome. I am dedicated to living a healthy lifestyle, and by being motivated to do so it makes me happier knowing that I am setting an example for others. Over the past year I have discovered how to live my best and healthiest life through books, changes of scenery, family bonding, and surrounding myself with great and likeminded people. 
Since my discovery I have accumulated so much excitement due to the intention to create an amazing future for myself, others who support me, and future generations. The best and only way to spread this sense of appreciation and excitement is through communication. As I have been studying just this past semester, communication can be complex if misunderstood. Misunderstandings lead to conflict and conflict results in loss of sleep, emotional stress, decrease productivity, and unhappiness! That is why is it extremely important to clearly communicate your emotions, ideas, and reasons for actions if necessary, to satisfy intention and eliminate assumption. This grant will provide one thousand dollars towards furthering my voyage of accumulating knowledge and success. If I am to receive this wonderful grant it will be going toward lowering my student loans as I am the last of three students in my family to go through this collegial journey. This grant will give me the ability to continue to live my best and healthiest life while elevating others around me as I intend to. I am excited to be admitted into the Shidler College of Business at University of Hawai’i at Manoa, to pursue my goals of becoming successful in the business industry. I now thank The National Society of Leadership and Success for giving me the opportunity to share my healthy lifestyle, with hopes to becoming someone who people can come to for help.
